we'll start with some red dot exercises
see it right there it'll be your guide
sit up straight about two feet away from
the screen
if you have a lazy eye cover it with
your hand to get the best results
do all these exercises for two minutes
twice a day
follow the red dot in a tornado like
motion your eye should move in a
clockwise direction
now you'll do the same thing but follow
the dot counterclockwise
keep following it imagining that you're
drawing a spiral with your eyes
concentrate on the red dot as it goes
from the bottom left of the screen
all the way up to the top right and then
back
let's do a couple more slanted lines
nice job
this time you're drawing a smooth curved
line with your eyes
start at the bottom of the screen and
move your eyes in a slow
tidal motion congrats you're doing the
wave
this next one's pretty easy just make a
circle with your eyes
like you're following the hands of a
clock
now let's reverse it you're still moving
around the clock but this clock is going
backwards
whoa you're turning back time
okay moving on this exercise will beef
up the flexibility of your eye muscles
trace the movement of the red dot with
your eyes to create an
infinity sign okay let's make some more
intricate shapes
start at the top left corner and create
a slanted line going to the bottom right
then move up to the top right from there
go over to the bottom left as you draw
one more slanted line and finally
back to the top left where you began and
that's why
it's called the butterfly starting at
the top left again
move your eyes to the right then down
and left
back to the right and repeat your eyes
should imitate a zigzag pattern
now your attention should be
concentrated not only on the pattern the
red dot makes
but also on the way it gets bigger and
smaller along the way
follow the traveler dot from the top
left of the screen to the top right
creating a straight line then repeat the
movement
but start in the middle of the screen
end the exercise by drawing a straight
line from the left bottom
this one's fun imagine your gaze is
tracing
a rainbow and let's draw the second half
of the circle
hey it looks like a smile now imagine
you're watching a ball bouncing on the
floor trace that
pattern with the dot try to do this
exercise as quickly as you can
you can also bounce from left to right
just make sure your neck doesn't move
you are getting very sleepy
yeah just kidding remember doing the
tornado exercise
well this one is similar since you'll
move your eyes in a spiral motion again
but the starting point will be the top
middle of the screen
and the spiral shape will take you to
the center point
relax your shoulders straighten up your
neck and look ahead
look to your left and then slowly roll
your eyes up towards the ceiling
keep rolling them to the right and from
there to the floor
do it clockwise five times and then the
other direction
another five times repeat three of these
cycles
to achieve even better results close
your eyes as you're rolling them
this helps lubricate your eyes and eases
the strain on the muscle
flexing isn't only for strengthening
your body muscles and showing off
you can also use it to make eye muscle
stronger and here's how you do it
sit on a comfortable chair and look
straight ahead then move your eyes up
without changing the position of your
neck
after that move your eyes down do 10
reps for this one
once you've done that look to the left
as far as you can without moving your
neck
keep it straight then look to the right
as far as you can and repeat 10 times
do this whole eye flexing cycle 4 times
sit in a comfortable position
and close your eyes while taking a deep
breath place an
index finger on each eyelid and apply
very light pressure for 10 seconds
let go for two seconds and then press
gently again
that'll be one rep and you'll do 10 of
them as you can guess
it's important to be very careful while
performing this exercise
you can hurt your eyes if you press too
hard constantly staring at the computer
or a mobile screen can make you forget
to blink as often as you should that's
why your eyes get red
sore and irritated but i'm not gonna
just tell you to remember to blink
there's a special way to do it to
relieve tired eyes
find a blank wall to eliminate any
possible distractions
and sit in front of it keep your neck
straight and your shoulders low
close your eyes and wait for 30 seconds
before opening them
do that 10 times and if anyone asks why
you're sitting and blinking in front of
a blank wall
just tell them you're exercising you
wouldn't be lying
find a comfortable position sitting
standing or lying down
and look straight ahead without moving
your head or neck
look to the left as much as you can keep
your eyes in that position for three
seconds
now look in front of you for a second
move your eyes to the right as far as
you can
and hold them there for three seconds
repeat this whole set 10 times
rub your hands together and you'll look
like you're scheming some evil plot
darkness is believed to help strengthen
the photoreceptor cells in your eyes
which in turn can contribute to clear
vision
[Music]
all you need to do is just close your
eyes and sit back
most important is to relax your eyelids
completely
think about something that you like to
do your future vacation
or other pleasant things and stay with
your eyes closed for at least
30 seconds
[Music]
this exercise improves all aspects of
your visual perception
it is suitable for both nearsightedness
and farsightedness
you should move your gaze in different
directions first
look right to left for five seconds
look up and then down for another five
seconds
after that turn your eyes in circular
motion
[Music]
do it for 10 to 15 seconds
then draw a figure eight with your eyes
[Music]
take your time no rush
this exercise helps to relax your eye
muscles and increases blood circulation
in your eyes
close your eyes tight for three to five
seconds
now open them
do it again
and again
and one more time
totally you should do this seven times
[Music]
this exercise improves the flow of
intracooler fluid
slightly push against your temples with
your fingers
and maintain this pressure for around
two seconds
you should repeat the exercise four to
five times
let's do it together
one
two
three
[Music]
four supplement your eye gymnastics with
a diet rich in foods good for eye health
carrots kale spinach liver
swiss chard zucchini brussels sprouts
sweet potatoes
and butter are rich in luteins and
vitamin a
omega-3 fatty acids vitamin c d
and e zinc and carotenoids also work
miracles for your vision
if you don't want to take them in pill
form and the foods we mentioned sound
too plain
spice it all up there are plenty of
recipes online
and before you say they're boring and
not yummy at all here's just one example
salmon cakes are extremely rich in
omega-3s
you're going to need 3 teaspoons extra
virgin olive oil 1 small
onion 1 celery stalk 2 tablespoons of
chopped fresh parsley
15 ounces drained canned salmon boneless
and skinless
or 1.5 cups cooked salmon and 1 large
egg
here's what you need to do chop the
onion and parsley
dice the celery and lightly beat the egg
in preparation for culinary magic
heat the oven to 450 degrees fahrenheit
put some cooking spray on your baking
sheet
pour one and a half teaspoons of oil
into a large non-stick skillet to heat
over medium-high heat
add the onion celery and parsley and
cook it for about three minutes while
stirring constantly
remove the skillet from the heat put the
salmon into a medium bowl
mix in the egg and add the onion sauce
bread crumbs and some pepper
mix everything well and split into eight
patties
put the remaining oil in a pan and cook
the patties for two to three minutes so
that the undersides turn
golden then put them on the baking sheet
and place in the oven for 15 to 20
minutes
serve the deliciousness with sauce dill
sauce for example
and lemon wedges carrots and gooseberry
juice are packed with vitamin a
and important antioxidants put them
together and you get a remedy that helps
to relax eye muscle stress and improve
eyesight
it even works for people with eye
related disorders
one glass every morning on an empty
stomach will work its magic
take it for two to three months with no
gaps and you'll see visible results not
only for your eyes but for your overall
health
if making fresh juice every day sounds
like too much work for you
try making a powder that you can add to
some milk before bed
you're going to need 60 almonds 16
tablespoons of fennel
seeds and 12 tablespoons of crystal
sugar grind the ingredients into a fine
powder
keep it in a glass or plastic jar away
from sunlight
two tablespoons of the powder mixed with
warm cow's milk before bed will do good
not only to your eyesight but
your brain and overall health make it
your final drink of the day because you
can't take anything for one to two hours
after drinking it
try a two or three month course for
starters and then take a break
green tea it's rich in antioxidants
called flavonoids
which fight off free radicals that can
cause a number of eye diseases
like glaucoma macular degeneration and
cataracts
more than that green tea is a kind of
natural sunscreen for your eyes
its polyphenols protect your eyes from
uv rays which can cause
cataracts and other eye diseases you
might love
basking in sunshine but your eyes
certainly do not
get your hands on some dried green tea
leaves 1 teaspoon makes about 1 cup
so if you want to make enough tea to
fill 5 cups
take 5 teaspoons of leaves green tea
pearls will also do the trick when
boiling water to make green tea
it's important to keep it warm enough
but not too hot
so the ideal temperature is 185 degrees
fahrenheit
as goldilocks would say it's just right
once the water has reached the perfect
temperature pour it into a cup with
green tea leaves on the bottom
and let it sit for 3 minutes remember
you can always use a tea ball if you
don't like tea leaves floating in your
cup
drink it warm or keep it cold in the
fridge the choice is all yours
bilberry these photogenic little berries
are known as great natural eyesight
boosters
they improve nighttime vision and help
regenerate important parts of the retina
which can be damaged because of high
blood pressure and diabetes and again
they are great when it comes to
preventing common eye diseases
like glaucoma and cataracts you can eat
bilberries straight up as part of your
daily fruit serving
try putting them in your yogurt half a
cup a day will be enough
or you can choose to take them in
supplement form the recommended amount
is 80 milligrams
twice a day a few times a week
almonds we all love the tantalizing
smell of fresh roasted almonds and
almond scented lotions
turns out almonds have more than just a
heart-melting aroma
raw almonds are a natural source of
omega-3 fatty acid
vitamin e and antioxidants all of which
are
great at improving vision if you use
almonds to benefit your eyesight
your memory and concentration will also
reap the rewards
what you have to do is soak five to ten
nuts overnight
when you wake up in the morning peel and
grind them enjoy them with a cup of warm
milk for the good of your eyes and for
your own bliss
they're safe to take every day for
several months in a row
ah contact lenses without them all you
see
is a bunch of blurry figures and shapes
you can't go without them
so you'd gladly never take your contacts
out
i know they're a real life saver but
there are places and situations where
you better go
contact free such as
in the shower hot tub and swimming pool
what do these places all have in common
right water
and water is full of bacteria even
seemingly clear
ocean lake or river water is swimming in
microorganisms
that are really dangerous for your eyes
in fact bacteria find it easier to stick
to your contacts
than they do directly to your eyeballs
once they grab on they start to multiply
and grow
stronger the possible result
a nasty infection called amoebic
keratitis
in simple terms it's a bad inflammation
of the cornea that results from
bacterial infection
the disease starts with pain in the eyes
and blurred vision
if you do nothing about it it can even
lead to blindness
this is what happened to a 41 year old
uk woman
when her eye doctor asked her about it
she admitted that she often showered in
her contacts
and didn't take them out when she went
for a swim
as a result after just two months of
living with infection and pain
the vision in her left eye dropped to
that's considered legally blind although
the condition is quite rare
and affects only one out of 250 000
people
it's still not a risk worth taking
treatment is long and difficult when
antibiotics don't work
it could mean a corneal transplant would
be in order
but even after transplantation the
eyesight rarely goes back to normal
for that uk woman it only helped her to
get 20 80 vision
that's still not good because it means
what she can see clearly at 20 feet
a person with good eyesight can see at
80 feet
if there's no way for you to avoid
showering with your contacts in
at least try to keep your eyes closed as
much as you can
this way you'll minimize contact between
your eyes and the water
before taking a dive remember that you
also have a second reason to take those
contacts out
chlorine in the water can seriously
damage them
again if for some reason you can't leave
your lenses in the changing room
put on some tight-fitting goggles and if
you do get water on your contact lenses
at least remember to clean them
thoroughly afterward
contact lens solution is a great
disinfectant when used wisely
if you use the same portion of it over
and over again
and just top it off with a few new drops
every now and then
you're not using it the way it was
intended
so it doesn't do its job as well it
completely stops being sterile
and as bacteria starts to thrive in this
environment
it can cause you some less than pleasant
eye infections
so only use fresh solution for overnight
contact storage
first it needs air drying
bacteria enjoy moisture so one sure way
to prevent their feast
is to deprive them of that leaving the
case to air out during the day will help
second don't forget to clean it with a
gentle soap and water
every week and again let it air dry
thoroughly when you're done
don't use a towel or toilet paper they
can leave behind
tiny fibers that can find their way onto
your lens
and onto your eye you're putting on eye
makeup and a tiny bit of it
accidentally gets onto your contact in
case that happens
immediately wash your hands then take
out the lens and disinfect it before
putting it back in
the best you can do is put your makeup
on first then your contacts
sunscreen doesn't belong on your
contacts either so
if it gets there by accident run a
disinfection
immediately your eyes don't start
itching and get red for no reason
if they feel dry you have an infection
or are having an allergic reaction
so remove your contacts immediately to
prevent more damage
wait and see if things get better after
you've taken them out
if it's not a more serious problem your
eyes might have just been rejecting your
lenses because you didn't disinfect them
properly
if you rub your eyes with contacts in
you have an
increased risk of developing keratoconus
that's a condition when your cornea
changes shape and goes from round to
cone-like
if nothing is done about it it can
eventually give you blurred vision
instead of rubbing your eyes treat them
with some anti-itch drops to calm them
your contacts don't like water and they
don't prefer the heat either
if you just take them out for the night
don't leave the case where the sun will
shine directly on it the next morning
never leave the case in your car either
it can get incredibly hot there
for the same reason avoid taking it to
the beach too
the hotter the case gets the drier its
contents will become